spring-boot-project/spring-boot-docs/src/docs/asciidoc/howto/data-initialization.adoc, before:

[[howto.data-initialization]]
== Database Initialization
An SQL database can be initialized in different ways depending on what your stack is.
Of course, you can also do it manually, provided the database is a separate process.
It is recommended to use a single mechanism for schema generation.



[[howto.data-initialization.using-jpa]]
=== Initialize a Database Using JPA
JPA has features for DDL generation, and these can be set up to run on startup against the database.
This is controlled through two external properties:

* `spring.jpa.generate-ddl` (boolean) switches the feature on and off and is vendor independent.
* `spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto` (enum) is a Hibernate feature that controls the behavior in a more fine-grained way.
  This feature is described in more detail later in this guide.



[[howto.data-initialization.using-hibernate]]
=== Initialize a Database Using Hibernate
You can set `spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto` explicitly and the standard Hibernate property values are `none`, `validate`, `update`, `create`, and `create-drop`.
Spring Boot chooses a default value for you based on whether it thinks your database is embedded.
It defaults to `create-drop` if no schema manager has been detected or `none` in all other cases.
An embedded database is detected by looking at the `Connection` type and JDBC url.
`hsqldb`, `h2`, and `derby` are candidates, and others are not.
Be careful when switching from in-memory to a '`real`' database that you do not make assumptions about the existence of the tables and data in the new platform.
You either have to set `ddl-auto` explicitly or use one of the other mechanisms to initialize the database.

NOTE: You can output the schema creation by enabling the `org.hibernate.SQL` logger.
This is done for you automatically if you enable the <<features#features.logging.console-output,debug mode>>.

In addition, a file named `import.sql` in the root of the classpath is executed on startup if Hibernate creates the schema from scratch (that is, if the `ddl-auto` property is set to `create` or `create-drop`).
This can be useful for demos and for testing if you are careful but is probably not something you want to be on the classpath in production.
It is a Hibernate feature (and has nothing to do with Spring).



[[howto.data-initialization.using-basic-sql-scripts]]
=== Initialize a Database Using Basic SQL Scripts
Spring Boot can automatically create the schema (DDL scripts) of your JDBC `DataSource` or R2DBC `ConnectionFactory` and initialize it (DML scripts).
It loads SQL from the standard root classpath locations: `schema.sql` and `data.sql`, respectively.
In addition, Spring Boot processes the `schema-$\{platform}.sql` and `data-$\{platform}.sql` files (if present), where `platform` is the value of configprop:spring.sql.init.platform[].
This allows you to switch to database-specific scripts if necessary.
For example, you might choose to set it to the vendor name of the database (`hsqldb`, `h2`, `oracle`, `mysql`, `postgresql`, and so on).
SQL database initialization can be disabled by setting configprop:spring.sql.init.enabled[] to `false`.
By default, Spring Boot enables the fail-fast feature of its script-based database initializer.
This means that, if the scripts cause exceptions, the application fails to start.
You can tune that behavior by setting configprop:spring.sql.init.continue-on-error[].

Script-based `DataSource` initialization is performed, by default, before any JPA `EntityManagerFactory` beans are created.
`schema.sql` can be used to create the schema for JPA-managed entities and `data.sql` can be used to populate it.
While we do not recommend using multiple data source initialization technologies, if you want script-based `DataSource` initialization to be able to build upon the schema creation performed by Hibernate, set configprop:spring.jpa.defer-datasource-initialization[] to `true`.
This will defer data source initialization until after any `EntityManagerFactory` beans have been created and initialized.
`schema.sql` can then be used to make additions to any schema creation performed by Hibernate and `data.sql` can be used to populate it.

If you are using a <<howto#howto.data-initialization.migration-tool,Higher-level Database Migration Tool>>, like Flyway or Liquibase, you should use them alone to create and initialize the schema.
Using the basic `schema.sql` and `data.sql` scripts alongside Flyway or Liquibase is not recommended and support will be removed in a future release.



[[howto.data-initialization.batch]]
=== Initialize a Spring Batch Database
If you use Spring Batch, it comes pre-packaged with SQL initialization scripts for most popular database platforms.
Spring Boot can detect your database type and execute those scripts on startup.
If you use an embedded database, this happens by default.
You can also enable it for any database type, as shown in the following example:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  batch:
	    jdbc:
	      initialize-schema: "always"
----

You can also switch off the initialization explicitly by setting `spring.batch.jdbc.initialize-schema` to `never`.



[[howto.data-initialization.migration-tool]]
=== Use a Higher-level Database Migration Tool
Spring Boot supports two higher-level migration tools: https://flywaydb.org/[Flyway] and https://www.liquibase.org/[Liquibase].



[[howto.data-initialization.migration-tool.flyway]]
==== Execute Flyway Database Migrations on Startup
To automatically run Flyway database migrations on startup, add the `org.flywaydb:flyway-core` to your classpath.

Typically, migrations are scripts in the form `V<VERSION>__<NAME>.sql` (with `<VERSION>` an underscore-separated version, such as '`1`' or '`2_1`').
By default, they are in a directory called `classpath:db/migration`, but you can modify that location by setting `spring.flyway.locations`.
This is a comma-separated list of one or more `classpath:` or `filesystem:` locations.
For example, the following configuration would search for scripts in both the default classpath location and the `/opt/migration` directory:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  flyway:
	    locations: "classpath:db/migration,filesystem:/opt/migration"
----

You can also add a special `\{vendor}` placeholder to use vendor-specific scripts.
Assume the following:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  flyway:
	    locations: "classpath:db/migration/{vendor}"
----

Rather than using `db/migration`, the preceding configuration sets the directory to use according to the type of the database (such as `db/migration/mysql` for MySQL).
The list of supported databases is available in {spring-boot-module-code}/jdbc/DatabaseDriver.java[`DatabaseDriver`].

Migrations can also be written in Java.
Flyway will be auto-configured with any beans that implement `JavaMigration`.

{spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/flyway/FlywayProperties.java[`FlywayProperties`] provides most of Flyway's settings and a small set of additional properties that can be used to disable the migrations or switch off the location checking.
If you need more control over the configuration, consider registering a `FlywayConfigurationCustomizer` bean.

Spring Boot calls `Flyway.migrate()` to perform the database migration.
If you would like more control, provide a `@Bean` that implements {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/flyway/FlywayMigrationStrategy.java[`FlywayMigrationStrategy`].

Flyway supports SQL and Java https://flywaydb.org/documentation/concepts/callbacks[callbacks].
To use SQL-based callbacks, place the callback scripts in the `classpath:db/migration` directory.
To use Java-based callbacks, create one or more beans that implement `Callback`.
Any such beans are automatically registered with `Flyway`.
They can be ordered by using `@Order` or by implementing `Ordered`.
Beans that implement the deprecated `FlywayCallback` interface can also be detected, however they cannot be used alongside `Callback` beans.

By default, Flyway autowires the (`@Primary`) `DataSource` in your context and uses that for migrations.
If you like to use a different `DataSource`, you can create one and mark its `@Bean` as `@FlywayDataSource`.
If you do so and want two data sources, remember to create another one and mark it as `@Primary`.
Alternatively, you can use Flyway's native `DataSource` by setting `spring.flyway.[url,user,password]` in external properties.
Setting either `spring.flyway.url` or `spring.flyway.user` is sufficient to cause Flyway to use its own `DataSource`.
If any of the three properties has not been set, the value of its equivalent `spring.datasource` property will be used.

You can also use Flyway to provide data for specific scenarios.
For example, you can place test-specific migrations in `src/test/resources` and they are run only when your application starts for testing.
Also, you can use profile-specific configuration to customize `spring.flyway.locations` so that certain migrations run only when a particular profile is active.
For example, in `application-dev.properties`, you might specify the following setting:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  flyway:
	    locations: "classpath:/db/migration,classpath:/dev/db/migration"
----

With that setup, migrations in `dev/db/migration` run only when the `dev` profile is active.



[[howto.data-initialization.migration-tool.liquibase]]
==== Execute Liquibase Database Migrations on Startup
To automatically run Liquibase database migrations on startup, add the `org.liquibase:liquibase-core` to your classpath.

[NOTE]
====
When you add the `org.liquibase:liquibase-core` to your classpath, database migrations run by default for both during application startup and before your tests run.
This behavior can be customized by using the configprop:spring.liquibase.enabled[] property, setting different values in the `main` and `test` configurations.
It is not possible to use two different ways to initialize the database (e.g. Liquibase for application startup, JPA for test runs).
====

By default, the master change log is read from `db/changelog/db.changelog-master.yaml`, but you can change the location by setting `spring.liquibase.change-log`.
In addition to YAML, Liquibase also supports JSON, XML, and SQL change log formats.

By default, Liquibase autowires the (`@Primary`) `DataSource` in your context and uses that for migrations.
If you need to use a different `DataSource`, you can create one and mark its `@Bean` as `@LiquibaseDataSource`.
If you do so and you want two data sources, remember to create another one and mark it as `@Primary`.
Alternatively, you can use Liquibase's native `DataSource` by setting `spring.liquibase.[driver-class-name,url,user,password]` in external properties.
Setting either `spring.liquibase.url` or `spring.liquibase.user` is sufficient to cause Liquibase to use its own `DataSource`.
If any of the three properties has not been set, the value of its equivalent `spring.datasource` property will be used.

See {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/liquibase/LiquibaseProperties.java[`LiquibaseProperties`] for details about available settings such as contexts, the default schema, and others.



[[howto.data-initialization.dependencies]]
=== Depend Upon an Initialized Database
Database initialization is performed while the application is starting up as part of application context refresh.
To allow an initialized database to be accessed during startup, beans that act as database initializers and beans that require that database to have been initialized are detected automatically.
Beans whose initialization depends upon the database having been initialized are configured to depend upon those that initialize it.
If, during startup, your application tries to access the database and it has not been initialized, you can configure additional detection of beans that initialize the database and require the database to have been initialized.



[[howto.data-initialization.dependencies.initializer-detection]]
==== Detect a Database Initializer
Spring Boot will automatically detect beans of the following types that initialize an SQL database:

- `DataSourceScriptDatabaseInitializer`
- `EntityManagerFactory`
- `Flyway`
- `FlywayMigrationInitializer`
- `R2dbcScriptDatabaseInitializer`
- `SpringLiquibase`

If you are using a third-party starter for a database initialization library, it may provide a detector such that beans of other types are also detected automatically.
To have other beans be detected, register an implementation of `DatabaseInitializerDetector` in `META-INF/spring-factories`.



[[howto.data-initialization.dependencies.depends-on-initialization-detection]]
==== Detect a Bean That Depends On Database Initialization
Spring Boot will automatically detect beans of the following types that depends upon database initialization:

- `AbstractEntityManagerFactoryBean` (unless configprop:spring.jpa.defer-datasource-initialization[] is set to `true`)
- `DSLContext` (jOOQ)
- `EntityManagerFactory` (unless configprop:spring.jpa.defer-datasource-initialization[] is set to `true`)
- `JdbcOperations`
- `NamedParameterJdbcOperations`

If you are using a third-party starter data access library, it may provide a detector such that beans of other types are also detected automatically.
To have other beans be detected, register an implementation of `DependsOnDatabaseInitializationDetector` in `META-INF/spring-factories`.
Alternatively, annotate the bean's class or its `@Bean` method with `@DependsOnDatabaseInitialization`.

Commit message:

Reinstate mode for controlling DB initialization
Closes gh-26682

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-docs/src/docs/asciidoc/howto/data-initialization.adoc, after:

[[howto.data-initialization]]
== Database Initialization
An SQL database can be initialized in different ways depending on what your stack is.
Of course, you can also do it manually, provided the database is a separate process.
It is recommended to use a single mechanism for schema generation.



[[howto.data-initialization.using-jpa]]
=== Initialize a Database Using JPA
JPA has features for DDL generation, and these can be set up to run on startup against the database.
This is controlled through two external properties:

* `spring.jpa.generate-ddl` (boolean) switches the feature on and off and is vendor independent.
* `spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto` (enum) is a Hibernate feature that controls the behavior in a more fine-grained way.
  This feature is described in more detail later in this guide.



[[howto.data-initialization.using-hibernate]]
=== Initialize a Database Using Hibernate
You can set `spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto` explicitly and the standard Hibernate property values are `none`, `validate`, `update`, `create`, and `create-drop`.
Spring Boot chooses a default value for you based on whether it thinks your database is embedded.
It defaults to `create-drop` if no schema manager has been detected or `none` in all other cases.
An embedded database is detected by looking at the `Connection` type and JDBC url.
`hsqldb`, `h2`, and `derby` are candidates, and others are not.
Be careful when switching from in-memory to a '`real`' database that you do not make assumptions about the existence of the tables and data in the new platform.
You either have to set `ddl-auto` explicitly or use one of the other mechanisms to initialize the database.

NOTE: You can output the schema creation by enabling the `org.hibernate.SQL` logger.
This is done for you automatically if you enable the <<features#features.logging.console-output,debug mode>>.

In addition, a file named `import.sql` in the root of the classpath is executed on startup if Hibernate creates the schema from scratch (that is, if the `ddl-auto` property is set to `create` or `create-drop`).
This can be useful for demos and for testing if you are careful but is probably not something you want to be on the classpath in production.
It is a Hibernate feature (and has nothing to do with Spring).



[[howto.data-initialization.using-basic-sql-scripts]]
=== Initialize a Database Using Basic SQL Scripts
Spring Boot can automatically create the schema (DDL scripts) of your JDBC `DataSource` or R2DBC `ConnectionFactory` and initialize it (DML scripts).
It loads SQL from the standard root classpath locations: `schema.sql` and `data.sql`, respectively.
In addition, Spring Boot processes the `schema-$\{platform}.sql` and `data-$\{platform}.sql` files (if present), where `platform` is the value of configprop:spring.sql.init.platform[].
This allows you to switch to database-specific scripts if necessary.
For example, you might choose to set it to the vendor name of the database (`hsqldb`, `h2`, `oracle`, `mysql`, `postgresql`, and so on).
By default, SQL database initialization is only performed when using an embedded in-memory database.
To always initialize an SQL database, irrespective of its type, set configprop:spring.sql.init.mode[] to `always`.
Similarly, to disable initialization, set configprop:spring.sql.init.mode[] to `never`.
By default, Spring Boot enables the fail-fast feature of its script-based database initializer.
This means that, if the scripts cause exceptions, the application fails to start.
You can tune that behavior by setting configprop:spring.sql.init.continue-on-error[].

Script-based `DataSource` initialization is performed, by default, before any JPA `EntityManagerFactory` beans are created.
`schema.sql` can be used to create the schema for JPA-managed entities and `data.sql` can be used to populate it.
While we do not recommend using multiple data source initialization technologies, if you want script-based `DataSource` initialization to be able to build upon the schema creation performed by Hibernate, set configprop:spring.jpa.defer-datasource-initialization[] to `true`.
This will defer data source initialization until after any `EntityManagerFactory` beans have been created and initialized.
`schema.sql` can then be used to make additions to any schema creation performed by Hibernate and `data.sql` can be used to populate it.

If you are using a <<howto#howto.data-initialization.migration-tool,Higher-level Database Migration Tool>>, like Flyway or Liquibase, you should use them alone to create and initialize the schema.
Using the basic `schema.sql` and `data.sql` scripts alongside Flyway or Liquibase is not recommended and support will be removed in a future release.



[[howto.data-initialization.batch]]
=== Initialize a Spring Batch Database
If you use Spring Batch, it comes pre-packaged with SQL initialization scripts for most popular database platforms.
Spring Boot can detect your database type and execute those scripts on startup.
If you use an embedded database, this happens by default.
You can also enable it for any database type, as shown in the following example:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  batch:
	    jdbc:
	      initialize-schema: "always"
----

You can also switch off the initialization explicitly by setting `spring.batch.jdbc.initialize-schema` to `never`.



[[howto.data-initialization.migration-tool]]
=== Use a Higher-level Database Migration Tool
Spring Boot supports two higher-level migration tools: https://flywaydb.org/[Flyway] and https://www.liquibase.org/[Liquibase].



[[howto.data-initialization.migration-tool.flyway]]
==== Execute Flyway Database Migrations on Startup
To automatically run Flyway database migrations on startup, add the `org.flywaydb:flyway-core` to your classpath.

Typically, migrations are scripts in the form `V<VERSION>__<NAME>.sql` (with `<VERSION>` an underscore-separated version, such as '`1`' or '`2_1`').
By default, they are in a directory called `classpath:db/migration`, but you can modify that location by setting `spring.flyway.locations`.
This is a comma-separated list of one or more `classpath:` or `filesystem:` locations.
For example, the following configuration would search for scripts in both the default classpath location and the `/opt/migration` directory:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  flyway:
	    locations: "classpath:db/migration,filesystem:/opt/migration"
----

You can also add a special `\{vendor}` placeholder to use vendor-specific scripts.
Assume the following:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  flyway:
	    locations: "classpath:db/migration/{vendor}"
----

Rather than using `db/migration`, the preceding configuration sets the directory to use according to the type of the database (such as `db/migration/mysql` for MySQL).
The list of supported databases is available in {spring-boot-module-code}/jdbc/DatabaseDriver.java[`DatabaseDriver`].

Migrations can also be written in Java.
Flyway will be auto-configured with any beans that implement `JavaMigration`.

{spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/flyway/FlywayProperties.java[`FlywayProperties`] provides most of Flyway's settings and a small set of additional properties that can be used to disable the migrations or switch off the location checking.
If you need more control over the configuration, consider registering a `FlywayConfigurationCustomizer` bean.

Spring Boot calls `Flyway.migrate()` to perform the database migration.
If you would like more control, provide a `@Bean` that implements {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/flyway/FlywayMigrationStrategy.java[`FlywayMigrationStrategy`].

Flyway supports SQL and Java https://flywaydb.org/documentation/concepts/callbacks[callbacks].
To use SQL-based callbacks, place the callback scripts in the `classpath:db/migration` directory.
To use Java-based callbacks, create one or more beans that implement `Callback`.
Any such beans are automatically registered with `Flyway`.
They can be ordered by using `@Order` or by implementing `Ordered`.
Beans that implement the deprecated `FlywayCallback` interface can also be detected, however they cannot be used alongside `Callback` beans.

By default, Flyway autowires the (`@Primary`) `DataSource` in your context and uses that for migrations.
If you like to use a different `DataSource`, you can create one and mark its `@Bean` as `@FlywayDataSource`.
If you do so and want two data sources, remember to create another one and mark it as `@Primary`.
Alternatively, you can use Flyway's native `DataSource` by setting `spring.flyway.[url,user,password]` in external properties.
Setting either `spring.flyway.url` or `spring.flyway.user` is sufficient to cause Flyway to use its own `DataSource`.
If any of the three properties has not been set, the value of its equivalent `spring.datasource` property will be used.

You can also use Flyway to provide data for specific scenarios.
For example, you can place test-specific migrations in `src/test/resources` and they are run only when your application starts for testing.
Also, you can use profile-specific configuration to customize `spring.flyway.locations` so that certain migrations run only when a particular profile is active.
For example, in `application-dev.properties`, you might specify the following setting:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  flyway:
	    locations: "classpath:/db/migration,classpath:/dev/db/migration"
----

With that setup, migrations in `dev/db/migration` run only when the `dev` profile is active.



[[howto.data-initialization.migration-tool.liquibase]]
==== Execute Liquibase Database Migrations on Startup
To automatically run Liquibase database migrations on startup, add the `org.liquibase:liquibase-core` to your classpath.

[NOTE]
====
When you add the `org.liquibase:liquibase-core` to your classpath, database migrations run by default for both during application startup and before your tests run.
This behavior can be customized by using the configprop:spring.liquibase.enabled[] property, setting different values in the `main` and `test` configurations.
It is not possible to use two different ways to initialize the database (e.g. Liquibase for application startup, JPA for test runs).
====

By default, the master change log is read from `db/changelog/db.changelog-master.yaml`, but you can change the location by setting `spring.liquibase.change-log`.
In addition to YAML, Liquibase also supports JSON, XML, and SQL change log formats.

By default, Liquibase autowires the (`@Primary`) `DataSource` in your context and uses that for migrations.
If you need to use a different `DataSource`, you can create one and mark its `@Bean` as `@LiquibaseDataSource`.
If you do so and you want two data sources, remember to create another one and mark it as `@Primary`.
Alternatively, you can use Liquibase's native `DataSource` by setting `spring.liquibase.[driver-class-name,url,user,password]` in external properties.
Setting either `spring.liquibase.url` or `spring.liquibase.user` is sufficient to cause Liquibase to use its own `DataSource`.
If any of the three properties has not been set, the value of its equivalent `spring.datasource` property will be used.

See {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/liquibase/LiquibaseProperties.java[`LiquibaseProperties`] for details about available settings such as contexts, the default schema, and others.



[[howto.data-initialization.dependencies]]
=== Depend Upon an Initialized Database
Database initialization is performed while the application is starting up as part of application context refresh.
To allow an initialized database to be accessed during startup, beans that act as database initializers and beans that require that database to have been initialized are detected automatically.
Beans whose initialization depends upon the database having been initialized are configured to depend upon those that initialize it.
If, during startup, your application tries to access the database and it has not been initialized, you can configure additional detection of beans that initialize the database and require the database to have been initialized.



[[howto.data-initialization.dependencies.initializer-detection]]
==== Detect a Database Initializer
Spring Boot will automatically detect beans of the following types that initialize an SQL database:

- `DataSourceScriptDatabaseInitializer`
- `EntityManagerFactory`
- `Flyway`
- `FlywayMigrationInitializer`
- `R2dbcScriptDatabaseInitializer`
- `SpringLiquibase`

If you are using a third-party starter for a database initialization library, it may provide a detector such that beans of other types are also detected automatically.
To have other beans be detected, register an implementation of `DatabaseInitializerDetector` in `META-INF/spring-factories`.



[[howto.data-initialization.dependencies.depends-on-initialization-detection]]
==== Detect a Bean That Depends On Database Initialization
Spring Boot will automatically detect beans of the following types that depends upon database initialization:

- `AbstractEntityManagerFactoryBean` (unless configprop:spring.jpa.defer-datasource-initialization[] is set to `true`)
- `DSLContext` (jOOQ)
- `EntityManagerFactory` (unless configprop:spring.jpa.defer-datasource-initialization[] is set to `true`)
- `JdbcOperations`
- `NamedParameterJdbcOperations`

If you are using a third-party starter data access library, it may provide a detector such that beans of other types are also detected automatically.
To have other beans be detected, register an implementation of `DependsOnDatabaseInitializationDetector` in `META-INF/spring-factories`.
Alternatively, annotate the bean's class or its `@Bean` method with `@DependsOnDatabaseInitialization`.
