spring-boot-project/spring-boot-actuator-autoconfigure/src/main/asciidoc/endpoints/integrationgraph.adoc, before:

[[integrationgraph]]
= Spring Integration graph (`integrationgraph`)

The `integrationgraph` endpoint exposes a graph containing all Spring Integration components.



[[integrationgraph-retrieving]]
== Retrieving the Spring Integration graph
To retrieve the information about the application, make a `GET` request to `/actuator/integrationgraph`, as shown in the following curl-based example:

include::{snippets}integrationgraph/graph/curl-request.adoc[]

The resulting response is similar to the following:

include::{snippets}integrationgraph/graph/http-response.adoc[]



[[integrationgraph-retrieving-response-structure]]
=== Response Structure
The response contains all Spring Integration components used within the application, as well as the links between them.
More information about the structure can be found in the https://docs.spring.io/spring-integration/reference/html/#integration-graph[reference documentation].



[[integrationgraph-rebuilding]]
== Rebuilding the Spring Integration graph
To rebuild the exposed graph, make a `POST` request to `/actuator/integrationgraph`, as shown in the following curl-based example:

include::{snippets}integrationgraph/rebuild/curl-request.adoc[]

This will result in a `204 - No Content` response:

include::{snippets}integrationgraph/rebuild/http-response.adoc[]

Commit message:

Fix link to Spring Integration Graph documentation
Closes gh-20023

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-actuator-autoconfigure/src/main/asciidoc/endpoints/integrationgraph.adoc, after:

[[integrationgraph]]
= Spring Integration graph (`integrationgraph`)

The `integrationgraph` endpoint exposes a graph containing all Spring Integration components.



[[integrationgraph-retrieving]]
== Retrieving the Spring Integration graph
To retrieve the information about the application, make a `GET` request to `/actuator/integrationgraph`, as shown in the following curl-based example:

include::{snippets}integrationgraph/graph/curl-request.adoc[]

The resulting response is similar to the following:

include::{snippets}integrationgraph/graph/http-response.adoc[]



[[integrationgraph-retrieving-response-structure]]
=== Response Structure
The response contains all Spring Integration components used within the application, as well as the links between them.
More information about the structure can be found in the {spring-integration-docs}index-single.html#integration-graph[reference documentation].



[[integrationgraph-rebuilding]]
== Rebuilding the Spring Integration graph
To rebuild the exposed graph, make a `POST` request to `/actuator/integrationgraph`, as shown in the following curl-based example:

include::{snippets}integrationgraph/rebuild/curl-request.adoc[]

This will result in a `204 - No Content` response:

include::{snippets}integrationgraph/rebuild/http-response.adoc[]
