spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/main/asciidoc/running.adoc, before:

[[running-your-application]]
== Running your application with Gradle

To run your application without first building an archive use the `bootRun` task:

[source,bash,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
	$ ./gradlew bootRun
----

The `bootRun` task is an instance of {boot-run-javadoc}[`BootRun`] which is a `JavaExec` subclass.
As such, all of the {gradle-dsl}/org.gradle.api.tasks.JavaExec.html[usual configuration options] for executing a Java process in Gradle are available to you.
The task is automatically configured to use the runtime classpath of the main source set.

By default, the main class will be configured automatically by looking for a class with a `public static void main(String[])` method in directories on the task's classpath.

The main class can also be configured explicitly using the task's `main` property:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-main.gradle[tags=main]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-main.gradle.kts[tags=main]
----


Alternatively, the main class name can be configured project-wide using the `mainClassName` property of the Spring Boot DSL:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/spring-boot-dsl-main-class-name.gradle[tags=main-class]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/spring-boot-dsl-main-class-name.gradle.kts[tags=main-class]
----


By default, `bootRun` will configure the JVM to optimize its launch for faster startup during development.
This behavior can be disabled by using the `optimizedLaunch` property, as shown in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-disable-optimized-launch.gradle[tags=launch]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-disable-optimized-launch.gradle.kts[tags=launch]
----


If the {application-plugin}[`application` plugin] has been applied, its `mainClassName` property must be configured and can be used for the same purpose:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/application-plugin-main-class-name.gradle[tags=main-class]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/application-plugin-main-class-name.gradle.kts[tags=main-class]
----


[[running-your-application-passing-arguments]]
=== Passing arguments to your application
Like all `JavaExec` tasks, arguments can be passed into `bootRun` from the command line using `--args='<arguments>'` when using Gradle 4.9 or later.
For example, to run your application with a profile named `dev` active the following command can be used:

[source,bash,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
	$ ./gradlew bootRun --args='--spring.profiles.active=dev'
----

See {gradle-api}/org/gradle/api/tasks/JavaExec.html#setArgsString-java.lang.String-[the javadoc for `JavaExec.setArgsString`] for further details.



[[running-your-application-reloading-resources]]
=== Reloading resources
If devtools has been added to your project it will automatically monitor your application for changes.
Alternatively, you can configure `bootRun` such that your application's static resources are loaded from their source location:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-source-resources.gradle[tags=source-resources]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-source-resources.gradle.kts[tags=source-resources]
----


This makes them reloadable in the live application which can be helpful at development time.

Commit message:

Document using system properties in gradle plugin docs
Closes gh-21317

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/main/asciidoc/running.adoc, after:

[[running-your-application]]
== Running your application with Gradle

To run your application without first building an archive use the `bootRun` task:

[source,bash,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
	$ ./gradlew bootRun
----

The `bootRun` task is an instance of {boot-run-javadoc}[`BootRun`] which is a `JavaExec` subclass.
As such, all of the {gradle-dsl}/org.gradle.api.tasks.JavaExec.html[usual configuration options] for executing a Java process in Gradle are available to you.
The task is automatically configured to use the runtime classpath of the main source set.

By default, the main class will be configured automatically by looking for a class with a `public static void main(String[])` method in directories on the task's classpath.

The main class can also be configured explicitly using the task's `main` property:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-main.gradle[tags=main]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-main.gradle.kts[tags=main]
----


Alternatively, the main class name can be configured project-wide using the `mainClassName` property of the Spring Boot DSL:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/spring-boot-dsl-main-class-name.gradle[tags=main-class]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/spring-boot-dsl-main-class-name.gradle.kts[tags=main-class]
----


By default, `bootRun` will configure the JVM to optimize its launch for faster startup during development.
This behavior can be disabled by using the `optimizedLaunch` property, as shown in the following example:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-disable-optimized-launch.gradle[tags=launch]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-disable-optimized-launch.gradle.kts[tags=launch]
----


If the {application-plugin}[`application` plugin] has been applied, its `mainClassName` property must be configured and can be used for the same purpose:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/application-plugin-main-class-name.gradle[tags=main-class]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/application-plugin-main-class-name.gradle.kts[tags=main-class]
----


[[running-your-application-passing-arguments]]
=== Passing arguments to your application
Like all `JavaExec` tasks, arguments can be passed into `bootRun` from the command line using `--args='<arguments>'` when using Gradle 4.9 or later.
For example, to run your application with a profile named `dev` active the following command can be used:

[source,bash,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
	$ ./gradlew bootRun --args='--spring.profiles.active=dev'
----

See {gradle-api}/org/gradle/api/tasks/JavaExec.html#setArgsString-java.lang.String-[the javadoc for `JavaExec.setArgsString`] for further details.



[[running-your-application-passing-system-properties]]
=== Passing System properties to your application
Since `bootRun` is a standard `JavaExec` task, system properties can be passed to the application's JVM by specifying them in the build script.
The values can be parameterized and passed as properties on the command line using the `-P` flag.

See {gradle-api}/org/gradle/api/tasks/JavaExec.html#systemProperty-java.lang.String-java.lang.Object-[the javadoc for `JavaExec.systemProperty`] for further details.



[[running-your-application-reloading-resources]]
=== Reloading resources
If devtools has been added to your project it will automatically monitor your application for changes.
Alternatively, you can configure `bootRun` such that your application's static resources are loaded from their source location:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-source-resources.gradle[tags=source-resources]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/running/boot-run-source-resources.gradle.kts[tags=source-resources]
----


This makes them reloadable in the live application which can be helpful at development time.
