spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/integrating-with-actuator.adoc, before:

[[integrating-with-actuator]]
= Integrating with Actuator



[[integrating-with-actuator.build-info]]
== Generating Build Information
Spring Boot Actuator's `info` endpoint automatically publishes information about your build in the presence of a `META-INF/build-info.properties` file.
A {build-info-javadoc}[`BuildInfo`] task is provided to generate this file.
The easiest way to use the task is via the plugin's DSL:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-basic.gradle[tags=build-info]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-basic.gradle.kts[tags=build-info]
----

This will configure a {build-info-javadoc}[`BuildInfo`] task named `bootBuildInfo` and, if it exists, make the Java plugin's `classes` task depend upon it.
The task's destination directory will be `META-INF` in the output directory of the main source set's resources (typically `build/resources/main`).

By default, the generated build information is derived from the project:

|===
| Property | Default value

| `build.artifact`
| The base name of the `bootJar` or `bootWar` task, or `unspecified` if no such task
  exists

| `build.group`
| The group of the project

| `build.name`
| The name of the project

| `build.version`
| The version of the project

| `build.time`
| The time at which the project is being built

|===

The properties can be customized using the DSL:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-custom-values.gradle[tags=custom-values]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-custom-values.gradle.kts[tags=custom-values]
----

The default value for `build.time` is the instant at which the project is being built.
A side-effect of this is that the task will never be up-to-date.
As a result, builds will take longer as more tasks, including the project's tests, will have to be executed.
Another side-effect is that the task's output will always change and, therefore, the build will not be truly repeatable.
If you value build performance or repeatability more highly than the accuracy of the `build.time` property, set `time` to `null` or a fixed value.

Additional properties can also be added to the build information:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-additional.gradle[tags=additional]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-additional.gradle.kts[tags=additional]
----

Commit message:

Allow build info properties to be disabled
At present, BuildPropertiesWriter can fail with a NPE if build properties (group, artifact, name, version) are set to null.

This is specifically problematic with the Gradle plugin, since its DSL can be used to set group, name and version properties to null in an attempt to remove them from the generated build-info.properties. Additionally, setting artifact property to null results in the value "unspecified".

This commit updates BuildPropertiesWriter to write the properties only if they are not null and have non-whitespace characters.

Closes gh-27092

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/docs/asciidoc/integrating-with-actuator.adoc, after:

[[integrating-with-actuator]]
= Integrating with Actuator



[[integrating-with-actuator.build-info]]
== Generating Build Information
Spring Boot Actuator's `info` endpoint automatically publishes information about your build in the presence of a `META-INF/build-info.properties` file.
A {build-info-javadoc}[`BuildInfo`] task is provided to generate this file.
The easiest way to use the task is via the plugin's DSL:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-basic.gradle[tags=build-info]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-basic.gradle.kts[tags=build-info]
----

This will configure a {build-info-javadoc}[`BuildInfo`] task named `bootBuildInfo` and, if it exists, make the Java plugin's `classes` task depend upon it.
The task's destination directory will be `META-INF` in the output directory of the main source set's resources (typically `build/resources/main`).

By default, the generated build information is derived from the project:

|===
| Property | Default value

| `build.artifact`
| The base name of the `bootJar` or `bootWar` task

| `build.group`
| The group of the project

| `build.name`
| The name of the project

| `build.version`
| The version of the project

| `build.time`
| The time at which the project is being built

|===

The properties can be customized using the DSL:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-custom-values.gradle[tags=custom-values]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-custom-values.gradle.kts[tags=custom-values]
----

NOTE: To omit any of the default properties from the generated build information, set its value to `null`.

The default value for `build.time` is the instant at which the project is being built.
A side-effect of this is that the task will never be up-to-date.
As a result, builds will take longer as more tasks, including the project's tests, will have to be executed.
Another side-effect is that the task's output will always change and, therefore, the build will not be truly repeatable.
If you value build performance or repeatability more highly than the accuracy of the `build.time` property, set `time` to `null` or a fixed value.

Additional properties can also be added to the build information:

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Groovy
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-additional.gradle[tags=additional]
----

[source,kotlin,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Kotlin
----
include::../gradle/integrating-with-actuator/build-info-additional.gradle.kts[tags=additional]
----
