spring-boot-project/spring-boot-docs/src/docs/asciidoc/messaging/jms.adoc, before:

[[messaging.jms]]
== JMS
The `javax.jms.ConnectionFactory` interface provides a standard method of creating a `javax.jms.Connection` for interacting with a JMS broker.
Although Spring needs a `ConnectionFactory` to work with JMS, you generally need not use it directly yourself and can instead rely on higher level messaging abstractions.
(See the {spring-framework-docs}/integration.html#jms[relevant section] of the Spring Framework reference documentation for details.)
Spring Boot also auto-configures the necessary infrastructure to send and receive messages.



[[messaging.jms.activemq]]
=== ActiveMQ Support
When https://activemq.apache.org/[ActiveMQ] is available on the classpath, Spring Boot can also configure a `ConnectionFactory`.
If the broker is present, an embedded broker is automatically started and configured (provided no broker URL is specified through configuration).

NOTE: If you use `spring-boot-starter-activemq`, the necessary dependencies to connect or embed an ActiveMQ instance are provided, as is the Spring infrastructure to integrate with JMS.

ActiveMQ configuration is controlled by external configuration properties in `+spring.activemq.*+`.
For example, you might declare the following section in `application.properties`:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  activemq:
	    broker-url: "tcp://192.168.1.210:9876"
	    user: "admin"
	    password: "secret"
----

By default, a `CachingConnectionFactory` wraps the native `ConnectionFactory` with sensible settings that you can control by external configuration properties in `+spring.jms.*+`:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  jms:
	    cache:
	      session-cache-size: 5
----

If you'd rather use native pooling, you can do so by adding a dependency to `org.messaginghub:pooled-jms` and configuring the `JmsPoolConnectionFactory` accordingly, as shown in the following example:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  activemq:
	    pool:
	      enabled: true
	      max-connections: 50
----

TIP: See {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/jms/activemq/ActiveMQProperties.java[`ActiveMQProperties`] for more of the supported options.
You can also register an arbitrary number of beans that implement `ActiveMQConnectionFactoryCustomizer` for more advanced customizations.

By default, ActiveMQ creates a destination if it does not yet exist so that destinations are resolved against their provided names.



[[messaging.jms.artemis]]
=== ActiveMQ Artemis Support
Spring Boot can auto-configure a `ConnectionFactory` when it detects that https://activemq.apache.org/components/artemis/[ActiveMQ Artemis] is available on the classpath.
If the broker is present, an embedded broker is automatically started and configured (unless the mode property has been explicitly set).
The supported modes are `embedded` (to make explicit that an embedded broker is required and that an error should occur if the broker is not available on the classpath) and `native` (to connect to a broker using the `netty` transport protocol).
When the latter is configured, Spring Boot configures a `ConnectionFactory` that connects to a broker running on the local machine with the default settings.

NOTE: If you use `spring-boot-starter-artemis`, the necessary dependencies to connect to an existing ActiveMQ Artemis instance are provided, as well as the Spring infrastructure to integrate with JMS.
Adding `org.apache.activemq:artemis-jms-server` to your application lets you use embedded mode.

ActiveMQ Artemis configuration is controlled by external configuration properties in `+spring.artemis.*+`.
For example, you might declare the following section in `application.properties`:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  artemis:
	    mode: native
	    broker-url: "tcp://192.168.1.210:9876"
	    user: "admin"
	    password: "secret"
----

When embedding the broker, you can choose if you want to enable persistence and list the destinations that should be made available.
These can be specified as a comma-separated list to create them with the default options, or you can define bean(s) of type `org.apache.activemq.artemis.jms.server.config.JMSQueueConfiguration` or `org.apache.activemq.artemis.jms.server.config.TopicConfiguration`, for advanced queue and topic configurations, respectively.

By default, a `CachingConnectionFactory` wraps the native `ConnectionFactory` with sensible settings that you can control by external configuration properties in `+spring.jms.*+`:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  jms:
	    cache:
	      session-cache-size: 5
----

If you'd rather use native pooling, you can do so by adding a dependency to `org.messaginghub:pooled-jms` and configuring the `JmsPoolConnectionFactory` accordingly, as shown in the following example:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  artemis:
	    pool:
	      enabled: true
	      max-connections: 50
----

See {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/jms/artemis/ArtemisProperties.java[`ArtemisProperties`] for more supported options.

No JNDI lookup is involved, and destinations are resolved against their names, using either the `name` attribute in the Artemis configuration or the names provided through configuration.



[[messaging.jms.jndi]]
=== Using a JNDI ConnectionFactory
If you are running your application in an application server, Spring Boot tries to locate a JMS `ConnectionFactory` by using JNDI.
By default, the `java:/JmsXA` and `java:/XAConnectionFactory` location are checked.
You can use the configprop:spring.jms.jndi-name[] property if you need to specify an alternative location, as shown in the following example:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  jms:
	    jndi-name: "java:/MyConnectionFactory"
----



[[messaging.jms.sending]]
=== Sending a Message
Spring's `JmsTemplate` is auto-configured, and you can autowire it directly into your own beans, as shown in the following example:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
include::{docs-java}/messaging/jms/sending/MyBean.java[]
----

NOTE: {spring-framework-api}/jms/core/JmsMessagingTemplate.html[`JmsMessagingTemplate`] can be injected in a similar manner.
If a `DestinationResolver` or a `MessageConverter` bean is defined, it is associated automatically to the auto-configured `JmsTemplate`.



[[messaging.jms.receiving]]
=== Receiving a Message
When the JMS infrastructure is present, any bean can be annotated with `@JmsListener` to create a listener endpoint.
If no `JmsListenerContainerFactory` has been defined, a default one is configured automatically.
If a `DestinationResolver`, a `MessageConverter`, or a `javax.jms.ExceptionListener` beans are defined, they are associated automatically with the default factory.

By default, the default factory is transactional.
If you run in an infrastructure where a `JtaTransactionManager` is present, it is associated to the listener container by default.
If not, the `sessionTransacted` flag is enabled.
In that latter scenario, you can associate your local data store transaction to the processing of an incoming message by adding `@Transactional` on your listener method (or a delegate thereof).
This ensures that the incoming message is acknowledged, once the local transaction has completed.
This also includes sending response messages that have been performed on the same JMS session.

The following component creates a listener endpoint on the `someQueue` destination:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
include::{docs-java}/messaging/jms/receiving/MyBean.java[]
----

TIP: See {spring-framework-api}/jms/annotation/EnableJms.html[the Javadoc of `@EnableJms`] for more details.

If you need to create more `JmsListenerContainerFactory` instances or if you want to override the default, Spring Boot provides a `DefaultJmsListenerContainerFactoryConfigurer` that you can use to initialize a `DefaultJmsListenerContainerFactory` with the same settings as the one that is auto-configured.

For instance, the following example exposes another factory that uses a specific `MessageConverter`:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
include::{docs-java}/messaging/jms/receiving/custom/MyJmsConfiguration.java[]
----

Then you can use the factory in any `@JmsListener`-annotated method as follows:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
include::{docs-java}/messaging/jms/receiving/custom/MyBean.java[]
----

Commit message:

Explain how to disable/configure the ActiveMQ embedded broker  #15296

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-docs/src/docs/asciidoc/messaging/jms.adoc, after:

[[messaging.jms]]
== JMS
The `javax.jms.ConnectionFactory` interface provides a standard method of creating a `javax.jms.Connection` for interacting with a JMS broker.
Although Spring needs a `ConnectionFactory` to work with JMS, you generally need not use it directly yourself and can instead rely on higher level messaging abstractions.
(See the {spring-framework-docs}/integration.html#jms[relevant section] of the Spring Framework reference documentation for details.)
Spring Boot also auto-configures the necessary infrastructure to send and receive messages.



[[messaging.jms.activemq]]
=== ActiveMQ Support
When https://activemq.apache.org/[ActiveMQ] is available on the classpath, Spring Boot can also configure a `ConnectionFactory`.
If the broker is present, an embedded broker is automatically started and configured (provided no broker URL is specified through configuration and the embedded broker is not disabled in the configuration).

NOTE: If you use `spring-boot-starter-activemq`, the necessary dependencies to connect or embed an ActiveMQ instance are provided, as is the Spring infrastructure to integrate with JMS.

ActiveMQ configuration is controlled by external configuration properties in `+spring.activemq.*+`.

By default an embedded broker is started, if you don't disable it explicitly and don't set the broker url. The broker
url is then autoconfigured to use the https://activemq.apache.org/vm-transport-reference.html[VM transport], which starts
an ActiveMQ broker in the same JVM instance.

You can disable the embedded broker by declaring the following section in `application.properties`:
[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  activemq:
	    in-memory: false
----

or by setting the broker url explicitly:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  activemq:
	    broker-url: "tcp://192.168.1.210:9876"
	    user: "admin"
	    password: "secret"
----

If you want to take full control over the embedded broker, please take a look on https://activemq.apache.org/how-do-i-embed-a-broker-inside-a-connection.html[the ActiveMQ documentation].

By default, a `CachingConnectionFactory` wraps the native `ConnectionFactory` with sensible settings that you can control by external configuration properties in `+spring.jms.*+`:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  jms:
	    cache:
	      session-cache-size: 5
----

If you'd rather use native pooling, you can do so by adding a dependency to `org.messaginghub:pooled-jms` and configuring the `JmsPoolConnectionFactory` accordingly, as shown in the following example:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  activemq:
	    pool:
	      enabled: true
	      max-connections: 50
----

TIP: See {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/jms/activemq/ActiveMQProperties.java[`ActiveMQProperties`] for more of the supported options.
You can also register an arbitrary number of beans that implement `ActiveMQConnectionFactoryCustomizer` for more advanced customizations.

By default, ActiveMQ creates a destination if it does not yet exist so that destinations are resolved against their provided names.



[[messaging.jms.artemis]]
=== ActiveMQ Artemis Support
Spring Boot can auto-configure a `ConnectionFactory` when it detects that https://activemq.apache.org/components/artemis/[ActiveMQ Artemis] is available on the classpath.
If the broker is present, an embedded broker is automatically started and configured (unless the mode property has been explicitly set).
The supported modes are `embedded` (to make explicit that an embedded broker is required and that an error should occur if the broker is not available on the classpath) and `native` (to connect to a broker using the `netty` transport protocol).
When the latter is configured, Spring Boot configures a `ConnectionFactory` that connects to a broker running on the local machine with the default settings.

NOTE: If you use `spring-boot-starter-artemis`, the necessary dependencies to connect to an existing ActiveMQ Artemis instance are provided, as well as the Spring infrastructure to integrate with JMS.
Adding `org.apache.activemq:artemis-jms-server` to your application lets you use embedded mode.

ActiveMQ Artemis configuration is controlled by external configuration properties in `+spring.artemis.*+`.
For example, you might declare the following section in `application.properties`:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  artemis:
	    mode: native
	    broker-url: "tcp://192.168.1.210:9876"
	    user: "admin"
	    password: "secret"
----

When embedding the broker, you can choose if you want to enable persistence and list the destinations that should be made available.
These can be specified as a comma-separated list to create them with the default options, or you can define bean(s) of type `org.apache.activemq.artemis.jms.server.config.JMSQueueConfiguration` or `org.apache.activemq.artemis.jms.server.config.TopicConfiguration`, for advanced queue and topic configurations, respectively.

By default, a `CachingConnectionFactory` wraps the native `ConnectionFactory` with sensible settings that you can control by external configuration properties in `+spring.jms.*+`:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  jms:
	    cache:
	      session-cache-size: 5
----

If you'd rather use native pooling, you can do so by adding a dependency to `org.messaginghub:pooled-jms` and configuring the `JmsPoolConnectionFactory` accordingly, as shown in the following example:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  artemis:
	    pool:
	      enabled: true
	      max-connections: 50
----

See {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/jms/artemis/ArtemisProperties.java[`ArtemisProperties`] for more supported options.

No JNDI lookup is involved, and destinations are resolved against their names, using either the `name` attribute in the Artemis configuration or the names provided through configuration.



[[messaging.jms.jndi]]
=== Using a JNDI ConnectionFactory
If you are running your application in an application server, Spring Boot tries to locate a JMS `ConnectionFactory` by using JNDI.
By default, the `java:/JmsXA` and `java:/XAConnectionFactory` location are checked.
You can use the configprop:spring.jms.jndi-name[] property if you need to specify an alternative location, as shown in the following example:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  jms:
	    jndi-name: "java:/MyConnectionFactory"
----



[[messaging.jms.sending]]
=== Sending a Message
Spring's `JmsTemplate` is auto-configured, and you can autowire it directly into your own beans, as shown in the following example:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
include::{docs-java}/messaging/jms/sending/MyBean.java[]
----

NOTE: {spring-framework-api}/jms/core/JmsMessagingTemplate.html[`JmsMessagingTemplate`] can be injected in a similar manner.
If a `DestinationResolver` or a `MessageConverter` bean is defined, it is associated automatically to the auto-configured `JmsTemplate`.



[[messaging.jms.receiving]]
=== Receiving a Message
When the JMS infrastructure is present, any bean can be annotated with `@JmsListener` to create a listener endpoint.
If no `JmsListenerContainerFactory` has been defined, a default one is configured automatically.
If a `DestinationResolver`, a `MessageConverter`, or a `javax.jms.ExceptionListener` beans are defined, they are associated automatically with the default factory.

By default, the default factory is transactional.
If you run in an infrastructure where a `JtaTransactionManager` is present, it is associated to the listener container by default.
If not, the `sessionTransacted` flag is enabled.
In that latter scenario, you can associate your local data store transaction to the processing of an incoming message by adding `@Transactional` on your listener method (or a delegate thereof).
This ensures that the incoming message is acknowledged, once the local transaction has completed.
This also includes sending response messages that have been performed on the same JMS session.

The following component creates a listener endpoint on the `someQueue` destination:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
include::{docs-java}/messaging/jms/receiving/MyBean.java[]
----

TIP: See {spring-framework-api}/jms/annotation/EnableJms.html[the Javadoc of `@EnableJms`] for more details.

If you need to create more `JmsListenerContainerFactory` instances or if you want to override the default, Spring Boot provides a `DefaultJmsListenerContainerFactoryConfigurer` that you can use to initialize a `DefaultJmsListenerContainerFactory` with the same settings as the one that is auto-configured.

For instance, the following example exposes another factory that uses a specific `MessageConverter`:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
include::{docs-java}/messaging/jms/receiving/custom/MyJmsConfiguration.java[]
----

Then you can use the factory in any `@JmsListener`-annotated method as follows:

[source,java,indent=0,subs="verbatim"]
----
include::{docs-java}/messaging/jms/receiving/custom/MyBean.java[]
----
