spring-boot-project/spring-boot-docs/src/docs/asciidoc/messaging/spring-integration.adoc, before:

[[messaging.spring-integration]]
== Spring Integration
Spring Boot offers several conveniences for working with {spring-integration}[Spring Integration], including the `spring-boot-starter-integration` "`Starter`".
Spring Integration provides abstractions over messaging and also other transports such as HTTP, TCP, and others.
If Spring Integration is available on your classpath, it is initialized through the `@EnableIntegration` annotation.

Spring Integration polling logic relies <<features#features.task-execution-and-scheduling,on the auto-configured `TaskScheduler`>>.

Spring Boot also configures some features that are triggered by the presence of additional Spring Integration modules.
If `spring-integration-jmx` is also on the classpath, message processing statistics are published over JMX.
If `spring-integration-jdbc` is available, the default database schema can be created on startup, as shown in the following line:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  integration:
	    jdbc:
	      initialize-schema: "always"
----

If `spring-integration-rsocket` is available, developers can configure an RSocket server using `"spring.rsocket.server.*"` properties and let it use `IntegrationRSocketEndpoint` or `RSocketOutboundGateway` components to handle incoming RSocket messages.
This infrastructure can handle Spring Integration RSocket channel adapters and `@MessageMapping` handlers (given `"spring.integration.rsocket.server.message-mapping-enabled"` is configured).

Spring Boot can also auto-configure an `ClientRSocketConnector` using configuration properties:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	# Connecting to a RSocket server over TCP
	spring:
	  integration:
	    rsocket:
	      client:
	        host: "example.org"
	        port: 9898
----

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	# Connecting to a RSocket Server over WebSocket
	spring:
	  integration:
	    rsocket:
	      client:
	        uri: "ws://example.org"
----

See the {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/integration/IntegrationAutoConfiguration.java[`IntegrationAutoConfiguration`] and {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/integration/IntegrationProperties.java[`IntegrationProperties`] classes for more details.

By default, if a Micrometer `meterRegistry` bean is present, Spring Integration metrics will be managed by Micrometer.
If you wish to use legacy Spring Integration metrics, add a `DefaultMetricsFactory` bean to the application context.

Commit message:

Add Spring Integration default poller auto-config
When polling consumers or source polling channel adapters
are used in Spring Integration applications, they require
some polling policy to be configured

* Add some sensitive default bean `PollerMetadata` auto-configured
bean which can be overridden by end-user or customized via
respective newly added `spring.integration.poller.*` configuration
properties

For reference a recent StackOverflow question:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69175808

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-docs/src/docs/asciidoc/messaging/spring-integration.adoc, after:

[[messaging.spring-integration]]
== Spring Integration
Spring Boot offers several conveniences for working with {spring-integration}[Spring Integration], including the `spring-boot-starter-integration` "`Starter`".
Spring Integration provides abstractions over messaging and also other transports such as HTTP, TCP, and others.
If Spring Integration is available on your classpath, it is initialized through the `@EnableIntegration` annotation.

Spring Integration polling logic relies <<features#features.task-execution-and-scheduling,on the auto-configured `TaskScheduler`>>.
The default `PollerMetadata` (poll unbounded number of messages every second) can be customized with `spring.integration.poller.*` configuration properties.

Spring Boot also configures some features that are triggered by the presence of additional Spring Integration modules.
If `spring-integration-jmx` is also on the classpath, message processing statistics are published over JMX.
If `spring-integration-jdbc` is available, the default database schema can be created on startup, as shown in the following line:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	spring:
	  integration:
	    jdbc:
	      initialize-schema: "always"
----

If `spring-integration-rsocket` is available, developers can configure an RSocket server using `"spring.rsocket.server.*"` properties and let it use `IntegrationRSocketEndpoint` or `RSocketOutboundGateway` components to handle incoming RSocket messages.
This infrastructure can handle Spring Integration RSocket channel adapters and `@MessageMapping` handlers (given `"spring.integration.rsocket.server.message-mapping-enabled"` is configured).

Spring Boot can also auto-configure an `ClientRSocketConnector` using configuration properties:

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	# Connecting to a RSocket server over TCP
	spring:
	  integration:
	    rsocket:
	      client:
	        host: "example.org"
	        port: 9898
----

[source,yaml,indent=0,subs="verbatim",configprops,configblocks]
----
	# Connecting to a RSocket Server over WebSocket
	spring:
	  integration:
	    rsocket:
	      client:
	        uri: "ws://example.org"
----

See the {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/integration/IntegrationAutoConfiguration.java[`IntegrationAutoConfiguration`] and {spring-boot-autoconfigure-module-code}/integration/IntegrationProperties.java[`IntegrationProperties`] classes for more details.

By default, if a Micrometer `meterRegistry` bean is present, Spring Integration metrics will be managed by Micrometer.
If you wish to use legacy Spring Integration metrics, add a `DefaultMetricsFactory` bean to the application context.
